### my college graduation and reflections. - 5/14/2022

My college career is officially at its end. I’ve officially obtained a Bachelors of Science in Computer Science. 

This honestly was one of the quickest and most stressful four years of my life. I started at Rutgers University in fall of 2018 knowing how to code from high school and trying to make mods for different games like Minecraft and Skyrim but was pretty undecided whether I really wanted to commit to computer science. I ended up just taking computer science classes anyway because I felt like coding was the only thing I really knew how to do and some people I met in my classes were cool. At that point, I did not know about software engineering or what I could even do as a career with a computer science degree. I really felt out of the loop compared to other kids being the first in my family to attend a four year university. It surprised me how some of my peers had parents that pressed them to do computer science specifically or even went further to study leetcode questions in their freetime. I wish I knew things like what personal projects to do or how to study for interviews 4 years ago but I can’t change the past. I feel I had to figure out the majority of things I know now on my own without anyone specifically mentoring me or guiding me. At 18, I just  knew I loved building new things on my own and solving problems. 

I really feel like the first two years of college were a blur. The first year of college I started to develop many unhealthy tendencies and put my own health on hold. Following the death of my grandma, being put into the dorms of a big university knowing nobody and very stressful weed out classes took a major toll on me. Just life itself was a grind. Adding studying for my degree to it was a lot. So much so that I even dropped out for a time period in fall of 2019 and withdrew from all of my classes due to a myriad of personal issues and health issues that led me to working retail in a dead end job for a bit. After returning to school in January of 2020, it felt like a good chance to reset my life. I was free to just focus on myself and school for the first time and was back in my apartment in New Brunswick. But the pandemic obviously cut things short in March of 2020 and I was quickly back to my old mindset. 

School during the pandemic was tough. I was completely online from March 2020 to September 2021. Rutgers was completely shut down for longer compared to most universities and I did not step back on campus until that September for class. I really let myself go for a while during the pandemic. I was back in my hometown with a bunch of bad memories and no real friends. Living with my family was a struggle. It took me a long time to work through a lot of different thoughts and perceptions I had. I coped with fast food, video games with my friends online and had a flipped sleep schedule. Eventually I really started to focus on my health: mental and physical. I started working out like crazy, journaling and started trying to really be on the road for self development. Of course it was a long road and I had to pick up each habit gradually and focus on one aspect of improvement at once. I started and still do a couple of positive hobbies I picked up during this time like lifting weight, skateboarding, playing guitar, music production and coding in my freetime. Trying to target and focus my negative thoughts into one creative space is something I try to do and actively try to get better at. 

My last year of college was probably the most stressful yet best year of my life. I really opened myself up to a lot of things and made lifelong friends I can call up at any time. I lived in a small two bedroom apartment with my close friend who I made so many good memories with. We started the year by celebrating his 21st birthday and went to Manhattan randomly from the train station. I started going to many hardcore and house shows which inspired me to take music seriously. I went on a couple trips. One with another close friend to upstate New York, Vermont, Massachusetts and Connecticut. The other trip I went on was to Los Angeles which shifted my whole perspective on how I view life and widened my vision. I haven’t had time to really post or reflect on that trip which I will do soon and talk more about on my blog. I met even more people, some of which I developed healthy romantic relationships and others who I felt like gave me a learning experience. I started to get really into coding again too. I took a class on computer graphics in which I did the procedural maze generator game as my final project and since then I have been wanting to learn a lot more about computer graphics. I finally have some free time since graduation and will be doing more personal projects. I definitely feel a bit sad. I’m now back at my parents house for a bit away from the majority of my friends and I don’t know which ones I will see again or be able to maintain a friendship with. I also don’t have a job yet because I am still interviewing for some big companies and will be just studying data structures and algorithms and leetcode until I finish with all of my scheduled interviews. I feel like I am getting in a nice place where I’ve had many interviews at this point and am getting good at being able to solve leetcode type questions under pressure. Right now I am studying for the onsite interviews at a couple different companies but they are all a couple weeks out so I will be preparing like crazy. I’m nervous just thinking about it but any big offer can change my entire life so I have to make it. Other than studying, I plan on just continuing with my powerlifting program, doing some type of personal projects to get better at Javascript which will also act as something to get better with graphics and system design, hanging out with friends and going to graduation parties, trying to make more music and just relax. I’m in a weird state where I feel like that is all I could do right now. I wish I could travel or really spend this summer just relaxing and not getting better at coding, however, I have to do what I have to do. 

I still think it is crazy I even graduated. I feel like I struggled so much getting a degree in computer science. Even dropping out at one point with no idea if I would even return. I know I want to be a software engineer but I’m unsure of my future right now because I’m still interviewing. I don’t know what is next for me but after all I’ve been through and the hard work I’ve put into everything, I’m confident I will be able to do great things. 

After what I’ve been through growing up and everything I’ve experienced. This feels like magic. 
